Our Mission
Founded in 1967 by the Helene Watermann, a prominent historian and patron of local artists, the Watermann Gallery is dedicated to advancing an appreciation of art and history in Green Valley. Watermann is not only the home for historical artifacts important to preserving the unique character of Green Valley, but also a place where visitors can experience exhibitions of fine art and participate in a variety of art and history-based programs.

Exhibitions and programs are all undertaken in an effort to provide the residents of Green Valley with a way of integrating art and history into their lives and taking away the lessons that these disciplines offer. By presenting quality exhibitions and programs, as well as committing to the proper care and preservation of works of art and artifacts relating to history and culture of Green Valley, the Watermann Gallery is the region's center for art and historical engagement.

Collections and Exhibitions
Watermann Gallery houses a collection of contemporary and modern art in the areas of painting, sculpture, prints, drawings, photography, film, installations and new media. Rotating exhibitions feature local artists, as well as art that is permanently housed at the gallery. The gallery also hosts an Annual Juried All-Media Art Exhibition and Annual High School Student Exhibition. 

In addition, the museum has a vast collection of Native American, historic artifacts, and geologic specimens from Green Valley and its surrounding areas. Many of these items are on permanent display within the museum, while others make up some of the history-themed rotating exhibits showcased throughout the year.

Current Exhibits
Light and Sound: A Multisensory Experience

The Painted Desert: Plein Air Painting

Iron and Glass: Architectural Photography


Calendar of Events
August 3	Summer Exhibitions Opening Reception 
August 11	Workshop: Exploring Watercolors
August 10 	Young Artist Workshop
August 17	Forum: Artist Critique Night
August 16 	Forum: Artist Critique Night
August 25	Workshop: Exploring Oils
September 8	Workshop: Exploring Giclee
September 14	Young Artist Workshop
September 20 	Spoken Word Performance
September 21 	Forum: Artist Critique Night
September 22	Workshop: Exploring Photography
October 1	Fall Exhibitions Opening Reception
October 12 	Young Artist Workshop
October 13	Workshop: Exploring Sculpture
October 18 	Forum: Artist Critique Night
October 19	Forum: Artist Critique Night
October 27	Workshop: Exploring Pastels
November 2	Watermann Gallery Art Foundation Gala
November 9 	Young Artist Workshop
November 10	Workshop: Exploring Metalwork
November 15 	Spoken Word Performance
November 16 	Forum: Artist Critique Night
November 24	Workshop: Exploring Woodturning
December 7	Young Artist Workshop
December 14 	Forum: Artist Critique Night

How to Help
The mission of Watermann Gallery Art Foundation is to raise funds to enhance collections, exhibitions, programs and facilities at the gallery and to fundraise and advise for the City Public Art program. 

Volunteering:
The Watermann Gallery is always accepting volunteer applications. As a volunteer, you will be an integral part of facilitating a safe and enjoyable experience for our patrons. Each community member who donates their time and energy to the arts will help facilitate and enjoyable and memorable experiences for visiting patrons and will be valuable members of the Watermann Gallery family.

Docent/Gallery Guide Volunteers lead tours of the gallery's rotating exhibits. Tour groups are usually no larger than 20 people and can comprise any age from elementary children to adult seniors. (Docents will be trained on proper procedure regarding leading tours.) Docents might also act as Gallery Guides, greeting guests, answering questions, providing guest information, and maintaining the security of guests and artwork in a given space. 

Public Program and Family Day Volunteers assist gallery staff with implementing and coordinating large scale special event days such as Ice Cream Socials, Silent Movies, lectures, etc. Volunteers will be asked to interact with the public and provide exceptional customer service; set up and take down equipment; take tickets; lead small group activities, prepare promotional materials, etc.

Behind-the-Scenes Volunteers may assist with a variety of projects on a case by case basis. Duties may include preparing marketing materials, providing assistance to the Curatorial or Preparatory Department and/or archival research. Volunteers will be matched to assignments that reflect their skills. There is little or no public interaction in these positions.

Donating to the Foundation
The Watermann Gallery is a non-profit organization, and is run entirely by donations and sales of gallery merchandise. Because we do not accept public funding, the gallery relies on contributions from businesses and individuals to maintain our high standards and dedication to keeping art and history accessible to the public.

All donations are welcome, and can be dropped off at the Gallery business office. Gold-level donors (over $1000) are prominently listed in the gallery foyer, and on all Gallery collateral printed in the same calendar year of the donation.
